README.md, before:

# poc-quarkus-multiple-datasources project

This is a simple poc using multiple data sources with Quarkus.

Quoting the [Quarkus documentation](https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm#multiple-persistence-units):
> Starting with Quarkus 1.8, you can define multiple persistence units using the Quarkus configuration properties approach.

Two datasources are defined in `src/resources/application.properties`:
- `Users`:
  - PostgreSQL
- `Orders`:
  - MariaDB or Oracle. 
  - Oracle is initially commented, because the Oracle JDBC driver must be downloaded manually. There are instructions below to change beteween MariaDB and Oracle.

## Steps to run the test with PostgreSQL and Mariadb
1. Start the database docker images;

```bash
docker run -d --name postgres-db -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_USER=postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres -e POSTGRES_DB=usersdb postgres
docker run -d --name mariadb-db -p 3306:3306 -e MYSQL_USER=maria -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=maria -e MYSQL_PASSWORD=maria -e MYSQL_DATABASE=ordersdb mariadb
```

2. Start Quarkus at dev mode:
```bash
./mvnw compile quarkus:dev
```
3. Or you can run inside docker-compose:
```
chmod +x ./run.sh
./run.sh
```
4. From a browser access http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui and the test:
   - /users/list - select data from the PostgreSQL;
   - /orders/list - select data from the MariaDB (or Oracle database);


## Change MariaDB to Oracle:
To test with the Oracle database, you need to:
1. [Download the Oracle JDBC driver](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/application-development/jdbc/downloads/index.html)
2. Put this driver at your Maven repository at: `/com/oracle/jdbc/ojdbc8/12.2.0.1`
3. Uncomment the Oracle JDBC dependency at the `pom.xml`:
```xml
    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.oracle.jdbc</groupId>
      <artifactId>ojdbc8</artifactId>
      <version>12.2.0.1</version>
    </dependency>
```
4. In the `src/resources/application.properties`, comment the MariaDB parameters and uncomment the Oracle parameters;
5. Start the docker container:
```bash
docker run -d --name oracle-db -p 1521:1521 -e ORACLE_DISABLE_ASYNCH_IO=true oracleinanutshell/oracle-xe-11g
```
6. Run the application and be happy!

In case you want to see the data from a client, as DBeaver, use the following parameters:
- Type: SID
- User: system
- Password: oracle

Test Oracle Docker image origin:./mvnw compile quarkus:dev

## Quarkus documentation:
- https://quarkus.io/guides/datasource#multiple-datasources
- https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm#multiple-persistence-units



# Quarkus

This project uses Quarkus, the Supersonic Subatomic Java Framework.

If you want to learn more about Quarkus, please visit its website: https://quarkus.io/ .

## Running the application in dev mode

You can run your application in dev mode that enables live coding using:
```shell script
./mvnw compile quarkus:dev
```

## Packaging and running the application

The application can be packaged using:
```shell script
./mvnw package
```
It produces the `poc-quarkus-multiple-datasources-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner.jar` file in the `/target` directory.
Be aware that it’s not an _über-jar_ as the dependencies are copied into the `target/lib` directory.

If you want to build an _über-jar_, execute the following command:
```shell script
./mvnw package -Dquarkus.package.type=uber-jar
```

The application is now runnable using `java -jar target/poc-quarkus-multiple-datasources-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner.jar`.

## Creating a native executable

You can create a native executable using: 
```shell script
./mvnw package -Pnative
```

Or, if you don't have GraalVM installed, you can run the native executable build in a container using: 
```shell script
./mvnw package -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true
```

You can then execute your native executable with: `./target/poc-quarkus-multiple-datasources-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner`

If you want to learn more about building native executables, please consult https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling.html.

Commit message:

put double quotes in properties with database name

README.md, after:

# poc-quarkus-multiple-datasources project

This is a simple poc using multiple data sources with Quarkus.

Quoting the [Quarkus documentation](https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm#multiple-persistence-units):
> Starting with Quarkus 1.8, you can define multiple persistence units using the Quarkus configuration properties approach.

Two datasources are defined in `src/resources/application.properties`:
- `Users`:
  - PostgreSQL
- `Orders`:
  - MariaDB or Oracle. 
  - Oracle is initially commented, because the Oracle JDBC driver must be downloaded manually. There are instructions below to change beteween MariaDB and Oracle.

## Steps to run the test with PostgreSQL and Mariadb
1. Start the database docker images;

```bash
docker run -d --name postgres-db -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_USER=postgres -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres -e POSTGRES_DB=usersdb postgres
docker run -d --name mariadb-db -p 3306:3306 -e MYSQL_USER=maria -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=maria -e MYSQL_PASSWORD=maria -e MYSQL_DATABASE=ordersdb mariadb
```

2. Start Quarkus at dev mode:
```bash
./mvnw compile quarkus:dev
```
3. Or you can run inside docker-compose:
```
chmod +x ./run.sh
./run.sh
```
4. From a browser access http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui and the test:
   - /users/list - select data from the PostgreSQL;
   - /orders/list - select data from the MariaDB (or Oracle database);


## Change MariaDB to Oracle:
To test with the Oracle database, you need to:
1. [Download the Oracle JDBC driver](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/application-development/jdbc/downloads/index.html)
2. Put this driver at your Maven repository at: `/com/oracle/jdbc/ojdbc8/12.2.0.1`
3. Uncomment the Oracle JDBC dependency at the `pom.xml`:
```xml
    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.oracle.jdbc</groupId>
      <artifactId>ojdbc8</artifactId>
      <version>12.2.0.1</version>
    </dependency>
```
4. In the `src/resources/application.properties`, comment the MariaDB parameters and uncomment the Oracle parameters;
5. Start the docker container:
```bash
docker run -d --name oracle-db -p 1521:1521 -e ORACLE_DISABLE_ASYNCH_IO=true oracleinanutshell/oracle-xe-11g
```
6. Run the application and be happy!

In case you want to see the data from a client, as DBeaver, use the following parameters:
- Type: SID
- User: system
- Password: oracle

Test Oracle Docker image origin:./mvnw compile quarkus:dev

## Quarkus documentation:
- https://quarkus.io/guides/datasource#multiple-datasources
- https://quarkus.io/guides/hibernate-orm#multiple-persistence-units


## Tip to pass environment variable to property with double quotes

To override a property like host."foo".bar with an environment variable it's necessary to put two underlines (__).

`host."foo".bar` it will be overriden with:
export HOST__FOO__BAR=your_host

In this projet:
- quarkus.datasource."users".jdbc.url
- export QUARKUS_DATA_SOURCE__USERS__JDBC_URL=your_url



# Quarkus

This project uses Quarkus, the Supersonic Subatomic Java Framework.

If you want to learn more about Quarkus, please visit its website: https://quarkus.io/ .

## Running the application in dev mode

You can run your application in dev mode that enables live coding using:
```shell script
./mvnw compile quarkus:dev
```

## Packaging and running the application

The application can be packaged using:
```shell script
./mvnw package
```
It produces the `poc-quarkus-multiple-datasources-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner.jar` file in the `/target` directory.
Be aware that it’s not an _über-jar_ as the dependencies are copied into the `target/lib` directory.

If you want to build an _über-jar_, execute the following command:
```shell script
./mvnw package -Dquarkus.package.type=uber-jar
```

The application is now runnable using `java -jar target/poc-quarkus-multiple-datasources-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner.jar`.

## Creating a native executable

You can create a native executable using: 
```shell script
./mvnw package -Pnative
```

Or, if you don't have GraalVM installed, you can run the native executable build in a container using: 
```shell script
./mvnw package -Pnative -Dquarkus.native.container-build=true
```

You can then execute your native executable with: `./target/poc-quarkus-multiple-datasources-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT-runner`

If you want to learn more about building native executables, please consult https://quarkus.io/guides/maven-tooling.html.
